doc/source/index.rst, before:

:notoc:

WATTS
=====

.. grid:: 3
    :gutter: 3

    .. grid-item-card:: \ :octicon:`rocket;2em` Getting Started
        :text-align: center
        :link: user/getting_started
        :link-type: doc

        New to watts? Click here to get a quick overview of how watts works.

    .. grid-item-card:: \ :octicon:`book;2em` User's Guide
        :text-align: center
        :link: user/index
        :link-type: doc

        The user's guide contains instructions for installing and an overview of
        the basic concepts.

    .. grid-item-card:: \ :octicon:`terminal;2em` API Reference
        :text-align: center
        :link: reference/index
        :link-type: doc

        The reference guide provides detailed information on classes, methods,
        arguments, return values, etc.

    .. grid-item-card:: \ :octicon:`git-pull-request;2em` Developer's Guide
        :text-align: center
        :link: dev/index
        :link-type: doc

        Interested in contributing to watts? Our developer's guide provides
        instructions on how to make a contribution.

    .. grid-item-card:: \ :octicon:`list-unordered;2em` Examples
        :text-align: center
        :link: https://github.com/watts-dev/watts/tree/development/examples

        Once you're acquainted with the basics of watts, check out our examples
        that illustrate a variety of use cases.


.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2
    :caption: Contents:
    :hidden:

    user/index
    reference/index
    dev/index

Commit message:

Add new box on documentation landing page for getting help

doc/source/index.rst, after:

:notoc:

WATTS
=====

.. grid:: 3
    :gutter: 3

    .. grid-item-card:: \ :octicon:`rocket;2em` Getting Started
        :text-align: center
        :link: user/getting_started
        :link-type: doc

        New to watts? Click here to get a quick overview of how watts works.

    .. grid-item-card:: \ :octicon:`book;2em` User's Guide
        :text-align: center
        :link: user/index
        :link-type: doc

        The user's guide contains instructions for installing and an overview of
        the basic concepts.

    .. grid-item-card:: \ :octicon:`terminal;2em` API Reference
        :text-align: center
        :link: reference/index
        :link-type: doc

        The reference guide provides detailed information on classes, methods,
        arguments, return values, etc.

    .. grid-item-card:: \ :octicon:`git-pull-request;2em` Developer's Guide
        :text-align: center
        :link: dev/index
        :link-type: doc

        Interested in contributing to watts? Our developer's guide provides
        instructions on how to make a contribution.

    .. grid-item-card:: \ :octicon:`list-unordered;2em` Examples
        :text-align: center
        :link: https://github.com/watts-dev/watts/tree/development/examples

        Once you're acquainted with the basics of watts, check out our examples
        that illustrate a variety of use cases.

    .. grid-item-card:: \ :octicon:`comment-discussion;2em` Getting Help
        :text-align: center
        :link: https://github.com/watts-dev/watts/discussions

        Have questions? Click here for our discussions forum where you can ask
        questions and engage with our development team.

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2
    :caption: Contents:
    :hidden:

    user/index
    reference/index
    dev/index
